>> Reporter: ON VACATION IN
ORLANDO LAST JUNE 12TH, 20-YEAR-
OLD PATIENCE CARTER, ON THE
LEFT, HER FRIEND TIARA PARKER,
AND PARKER'S COUSIN, AKYRA
MURRAY, DECIDED TO GO OUT TO THE
PULSE NIGHT CLUB.
>> IT WAS SO MUCH FUN, AND WE
WERE TALKING TO EACH OTHER
THROUGHOUT THAT NIGHT, LIKE WE
ARE DEFINITELY COMING BACK HERE,
THIS IS A SPOT FOR VACATION.
WE WERE SO SET ON COMING BACK
AGAIN, AND THEN THE GUNSHOTS
STARTED.
>> Reporter: SHORTLY AFTER 2:00
A.M., OMAR MATEEN ENTERED THE
CLUB ARMED WITH A SEMI-AUTOMATIC
RIFLE AND A HANDGUN AND BEGAN
FIRING.
>> WE DIDN'T KNOW IF IT WAS
GUNSHOTS, WE DIDN'T KNOW IF IT
WAS PART OF THE MUSIC.
ALL WE WERE DOING WAS FEELING
THE REACTIONS OF OTHER PEOPLE.
AND EVERYBODY WAS CHAOTIC.
AND AT THIS POINT, PEOPLE ARE
JUST KIND OF JUST RUNNING BACK
AND FORTH, NOT REALLY KNOWING
WHAT TO DO.
I DROPPED TO THE FLOOR BECAUSE I
DON'T KNOW WHAT TO DO.
>> Reporter: CARTER, PARKER, AND
MURRAY ENDED UP HIDING TOGETHER
IN THE CLUB'S BATHROOM.
WITHIN MINUTES MATEEN WOULD
FOLLOW.
>> WE WERE THE LAST FEW TO GET
INTO THE BATHROOM STALL THAT WE
WERE IN.
AND THERE WAS ALREADY ABOUT
MAYBE, WHAT, 17-20 PEOPLE IN
THAT STALL ALREADY.
SO WE CLOSED THE DOOR, AND THEN
WE JUST SAT DOWN ON THE FLOOR.
SO YOU COULD STILL HEAR PEOPLE
SCREAMING IN OTHER PARTS OF THE
CLUB.
AND THEN THERE WAS A PERIOD OF
SILENCE.
HE WALKS IN, YOU COULD HEAR HIS
FOOTSTEPS, AND THEN HE STARTS
SHOOTING INTO OUR BATHROOM.
WHEN HIS GUN GOT JAMMED, THAT'S
WHEN THE SHOOTING STOPPED.
>> Reporter: CARTER HAD BEEN
SHOT IN BOTH LEGS.
SHE LAID ON THE BATHROOM AND
TRIED TO STAY QUIET.
AT 2:35 A.M., SHE HEARD MATEEN
CALL THE POLICE AND PLEDGE
ALLEGIANCE TO ISIS.
>> THAT'S WHEN IT KIND OF
CONFIRMED FOR ME THAT WE WEREN'T
GOING TO GET OUT OF HERE,
BECAUSE HE HAD A MOTIVE, HE WAS
THERE FOR A REASON, AND HE WAS
TRYING TO PROVE SOMETHING.
SO AT THAT POINT I PRETTY MUCH
JUST GAVE UP.
>> Reporter: YOU THOUGHT YOU
WERE NEVER GOING TO GET OUT OF
THERE?
>> I ABSOLUTELY THOUGHT I WAS
NEVER GOING TO GET OUT.
HONESTLY, YEAH.
I LOST HOPE VERY, VERY QUICKLY.
SO I JUST STARTED MAKING PEACE
WITH GOD.
>> Reporter: TWO-AND-A-HALF
HOURS LATER, POLICE PLOWED
THROUGH THE BATHROOM WALL IN AN
ARMORED VEHICLE.
RIGHT BEFORE THAT, CARTER SAYS,
MATEEN CAME INTO THE BATHROOM
STALL WHERE SHE WAS HIDING.
>> HE HAS HIS HANDGUN IN HIS
HAND.
AT THIS POINT, MY FACE IS
TURNING TO THE OTHER STALL,
BECAUSE I REALLY JUST DIDN'T
WANT TO GET SHOT IN THE FACE.
AND I HEARD HIM SAY "HEY, YOU."
HE SHOT SOMEONE.
HE SHOT ANOTHER PERSON.
AND THEN RIGHT BEFORE THE POLICE
CAME IN, HE SHOT THE PERSON THAT
WAS DIRECTLY BEHIND ME.
THAT'S WHEN THE WALL CAME DOWN,
SO THE POLICE CAME THROUGH THE
WALL.
ALL THE DEBRIS WAS PRETTY MUCH
ALL OVER MY FACE, BUT I COULD
SEE THROUGH THIS ONE PEEPHOLE
THROUGHOUT ALL THE DEBRIS, I SAW
THE LIGHTS, JUST THE SPARKS FROM
THEM EXCHANGING GUNFIRE WITH ONE
ANOTHER.
AND THEN THERE WAS SILENCE.
>> Reporter: CARTER SPENT SIX
DAYS IN AN ORLANDO HOSPITAL
UNDERGOING SURGERY ON HER LEGS.
HER FRIEND TIARA PARKER, SHOT IN
THE STOMACH, SURVIVED.
PARKER'S COUSIN, AKYRA MURRAY,
DID NOT.
CARTER RETURNED TO NEW YORK
UNIVERSITY AND HAS JUST
COMPLETED HER JUNIOR YEAR.
SHE'S LARGELY RECOVERED FROM HER
PHYSICAL INJURIES, BUT NOT HER
EMOTIONAL SCARS.
>> AT THE BEGINNING OF THIS
SCHOOL YEAR, I WAS LIMPING TO
CLASS.
I WAS LITERALLY DOING THIS AND
GETTING TO CLASS.
AND NOW I'M JUST WALKING
STRAIGHT BY THE END OF THIS
SCHOOL YEAR.
EMOTIONALLY, I THINK, IT'S LIKE
EVERY DAY IS A DIFFERENT KIND OF
STRUGGLE.
SOME DAYS I'M REALLY UP, AND I'M
SO HAPPY, LIFE IS GREAT, I'M
EXCITED ABOUT THIS THING THAT
HAPPENED, THIS THING THAT
HAPPENED.
AND THEN SOME DAYS I JUST FIND
MYSELF FALLING INTO THIS DARK
PLACE THAT I DON'T WANT TO GO
BACK TO.
I WAS IN A REALLY DARK PLACE IN
THE HOSPITAL, AND SOMETIMES I
FEEL MYSELF GOING BACK THERE.
>> Reporter: CARTER IS WRITING A
BOOK ABOUT SURVIVING THE PULSE
NIGHTCLUB ATTACK.
NEWS OF OTHER TERRORIST ATTACKS,
LIKE THE ONE AFTER A POP CONCERT
IN MANCHESTER, ENGLAND, LAST
MONTH, HITS HER PARTICULARLY
HARD.
>> WE'RE ALL, YOU KNOW, AT RISK
OF BEING, JUST LIKE, HAVING OUR
LIVES DEVASTATED AT SOME POINT.
SO I JUST REALLY HOPE WE DON'T
FORGET ABOUT THE PEOPLE AND THE
FAMILIES THAT ARE BEING AFFECTED
BY THESE SITUATIONS THAT HAPPEN.
BECAUSE THEY'RE REAL PEOPLE.